RFC 1014 - Parsec account 2: Electric Boogaloo (#10206)
Scille/parsec-cloud: docs/rfcs/1015-auto-enrollment-device.md

<!-- Parsec Cloud (https://parsec.cloud) Copyright (c) BUSL-1.1 2016-present Scille SAS -->

> # Auto-Enrollment Device

Reviewer: This RFC is in line with what we've discussed so far :+1:. I would only change the name as the "enrollment" term has already been banned from Parsec. Also, the auto

This "remote device" was previously referred as "Device Registration Key" in the sense that it was "a key/device used to register new devices". If that name does not fit, maybe "Registration Device" or simply "Account Vault Device" (since there will only be one per user account/organization).

Reviewer: RFC has been renamed "Registration Device"

## 1 - Goals

1. Allow simplified use of multiple devices by not requiring device-to-device enrollment.
2. Provide configuration for per-organization opt-out of this solution for security reasons.

## 2 - Overview

## 2.1 - Different types of devices

In Parsec, a device is supposed to:

- Correspond to a single physical machine (e.g. desktop, phone, etc.)
- Never run in parallel (as it messes with the sync system)

However, with Parsec account, we introduce one exception to this: the "Auto-Enrollment Device".
The idea is to have a special device that only lives on the server and is used to
create new devices (hence bypassing the need for device-to-device enrollment).

> This device's `LocalDevice` is stored server-side in the Account Vault (see RFC 1014).

Reviewer 2: **todo:** Link RFC

Since the Account Vault can be disabled on a per-organization basis (for security

> reason, see RFC 1014), this feature is work in a best effort basis (i.e. traditional

Reviewer 2: **todo:** Link RFC

device-to-device enrollment is still used otherwise).

### 2.2 - Relationship with existing enrollment

During the enrollment process, the claimer's client should decide what to do with
the new device.

This is done solely based on the organization configuration:

- If the organization allows Account Vault, the new device is an Auto-Enrollment Device.
  It is uploaded to the server and then used to create a new device that will be the
  actual device used locally.

> - Otherwise, the new device is the actual device used locally.

Reviewer: What if the configuration is changed, e.g. Account Vault is first enabled then disabled (or viceversa). This shouldn't be so frequent, but we should consider how the system would behave and manage compatibility with existing (local or remote) devices.

Reviewer 2: IMO it should behave like a fuse, meaning that it can only be enabled and never disabled.

Disabling the Account feature pose the question what to do with the device on account server and for the devices created from them for a given organization.

Reviewer: RFC has been renamed "Registration device"

> > Notes:

Reviewer 2: **nitpick:** 
```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
```

>
> - The reason not to allow the user to bypass the organization configuration is twofold:
>   - It simplifies implementation (i.e. everything is MUST, there is no SHOULD).
>   - It simplifies user experience since there is no user interaction needed.
>
> - The Parsec client should probably still provide some explanation about where the
>   device is stored and what it means (typically to avoid confusion when a user uses
>   two organizations with different config).
>   Typically "This organization disallows storing device keys on the server, manual

> >   device invitation is needed to get access from another machine.".

Reviewer 2: **praise:** Clean

## 2.3 - Access recovery on account vault reset

> If the user lose recreate a vault from scratch (e.g. he has lost his password and hence use
> does an account recovery), he is able to recreate the Auto-Enrollment Device from any
> Parsec client that still has access to corresponding identity:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the user recreates a vault from scratch (e.g. he has lost his password and hence performs an account recovery), the Auto-Enrollment Device can be recreated from any
Parsec client that still has access to corresponding identity:
```

### 3.2 - API: Add `AutoEnrollmentDevice` to `AccountVaultItem`

```json5
{
    "label": "AccountVaultItem",
    "type": "account_vault_item",
    "other_fields": [
        {
          "name": "organization_id",
          "type": "OrganizationID"
        },
        {
          // Data encrypted by the vault key
          "name": "encrypted_data",
          "type": "Bytes"
        },
        {
          "name": "data_type",
          "type": "VaultItemDataType",
        }
    ],
    "nested_types": [
      {
        "name": "VaultItemDataType",
        "discriminant_field": "type",
        "variants": [

          // Omitted items
          // […]

          {
            "name": "AutoEnrollmentDevice",
            "discriminant_value": "AUTO_ENROLLMENT_DEVICE",
            "fields": [
              // Device ID is not provided here since it is not relevant:
              // this item is only used to give access to this organization/user
              // couple.
              {
                "name": "user_id",
                "type": "UserID"
              }
            ]
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
}
```

> > Note: `WebLocalDeviceKey` is only allowed for organization having their `ClientSourceStrategy`

Reviewer 2: **nitpick:** 
```suggestion
> [!NOTE] 
> `WebLocalDeviceKey` is only allowed for organization having their `ClientSourceStrategy`
```

> > configured with `NativeOrWeb` (see RFC 1017).

Reviewer 2: **todo:** Link RFC

### 3.3 - Client

> - Use organization configuration (obtained with `invite_info`, see RFC 1014).

Reviewer 2: **todo:** Link RFC
